# YDEA
The Yale Digital Dura Europos Archive is a project sponsored by the ARCHAIA Program for the Study of Ancient and Premodern Cultures and Societies, with two ambitious goals. The first is to create a linked open data repository for items excavated in Dura-Europos and held in the Yale University collections (this includes the Yale University Art Gallery, the Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript Library, and the Peabody Museum) and, in the long-term, to include other collections as well. This will dramatically improve the accessibility, findability and interoperability for the rare and important archaeological finds of Dura Europos which have been dispersed across the world. In addition, by creating Urban Gazeteers for site blocks in Dura Europos, this database will allow researchers to associate objects with authoritative geospatial locations. 
The second goal of this project is to create a front-end interface that will allow users to query for particular items. This will enable researchers to design very specific queries over a huge database and will enormously aid researchers, academics and the general public.
In the first part, we have normalised the data, parsed out expressions in the label and created new columns in a csv output which can then be reconciled in a larger database. These NLP transformations are documented in the file "date_normalisation.py".
In the second part, we have created a bot using Pywikibot to batchupload a number of items into Wikidata which serves as a useful repository to host the data initially. The scripts for this bot are contained in Bot_Upload which uses an OATH password in PAWS to iterate over items in our data and add statements into Wikidata. 
In the third part, we will design a user interactive web interface that will generate and return the SPARQL endpoint queries. 
